---
layout: post
title: "2018 in review"
date: 2019-01-04 16:45:00 +0000
categories: review
---
2018 was an important year for me personally from a work perspective; I founded a new company, Axiom AI, along
with some long-time business partners, and we had a quite successful first few months. In between developing the
new product, being invited into the Techstars network, and jetting of to Berlin to take part in the 2018 SAP.io 
foundry, it's all been pretty eventful and busy.

Unsurprisingly this has left my other major projects, Rosenberg and Rabalais, on the back burner for a few months.
As a chronic tinkerer and dilettante I've of course carried on making prototypes and other little bits, but any
significant progress has been non-existent. In all likelihood this will probably continue into 2019, which following
on from 2018 should looks set to be a very important year in my life; perhaps the biggest so far.

Nevertheless, I do have personal goals. 

One of them is to write more on this blog, more regularly; perhaps one article
a month is good to aim for, though I know that inspiration has to come from somewhere. I have a few things I wanted
to do, including some literary and game design analysis, which could have a home here, as well as updates to 
anything I've found time to work on.

Another is to get a release of Rosenberg together, or at least put it into a complete enough form that it's usable
for my purposes. To facilitate this it seems likely that the engine and tools will migrate over to Lua, probably
using the Love2D framework as a starting point, just to save time. 
I almost daily have some little idea for another new experiment in game design, and the fact that no tool exists 
for the kind of turn based strategy games I want to make is a real stumbling block, especially given the fact of time 
poverty. 
Even if this basically takes the form of some simple libraries for Love2D and a basic turn based engine loop, it's 
at least something.

In terms of my own game design, I've been tinkering with a system inspired by the Call of Cthulhu RPG and Lovecraft
in general. You might see it as attempting to make an adventure game, but replacing puzzles is
a relatively light, replayable strategy layer which should avoid all of the problems I have with puzzle design.
This will probably be the example game I do with Rosenberg. 

Note to self: do an article on the design of adventure games at some point.

Finally, a notable event of this year is the open-sourcing of Chris Crawford's SWAT tool for creating interactive 
storyworlds. As a long-time follower of Crawford this is pretty interesting, so I hope I can make some small amount
of time to play with it. I've already done some preliminary fiddling with the tool, and have joined with the small
community of individuals who are into so-called "Storytronics", which is the umbrella term for Chris's approach to
IS. My initial thoughts are that this is like the assembly language of IS; you can probably do anything in it, but
good luck trying. Hopefully I can progress further with my understanding this year, and I'm keen to contribute
to the software in some way, but it remains to be seen if that'll be possible.

That's enough directionless rambling for now. Let's see how the year pans out!





